                                  CHAPTER 57-38
                                     INCOME TAX

57-38-01. Definitions.
As used in this chapter, unless the context or subject matter otherwise requires:
1. "Chronically mentally ill" means a person who, as a result of a mental disorder, exhibits
     emotional or behavioral functioning which is so impaired as to interfere substantially
     with the person's capacity to remain in the community without verified supportive
     treatment or services of a long-term or indefinite duration. This mental disability must
     be severe and persistent, resulting in a long-term limitation of the person's functional
     capacities for primary activities of daily living such as interpersonal relationships,
     homemaking, self-care, employment, and recreation.
2. "Corporation" includes associations, business trusts, joint stock companies, and
     insurance companies.
3. "Developmental disability" has the same meaning as defined in section 25-01.2-01.
4. "Domestic" when applied to a corporation means created or organized under the laws
     of North Dakota.
5. "Federal Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended", "United States Internal
     Revenue Code of 1954, as amended", and "Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as
     amended", mean the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
     Reference to the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, includes a reference to
     the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and reference to the
     United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, includes a reference to
     the provisions of law formerly known as the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as
     amended.
     a. Except that the provisions of section 168(f)(8) of the Internal Revenue Code of
          1954, as amended, are not adopted in those instances when the minimum
          investment by the lessor is less than one hundred percent for the purpose of
          computing North Dakota taxable income for individuals, estates, trusts, and
          corporations for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1983. Therefore,
          federal taxable income must be increased, or decreased, as the case may be, to
          reflect the adoption or nonadoption of the provisions of section 168(f)(8) of the
          Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, and such adjustments must be
          made before computing income subject to apportionment.
     b. Provided, that one-half of the amount not allowed as an accelerated cost
          recovery system depreciation deduction for the taxable year beginning after
          December 31, 1982, may be deducted from federal taxable income in each of the
          next two taxable years beginning after December 31, 1985, and one-half of the
          amount not allowed as an accelerated cost recovery system depreciation
          deduction for the taxable year beginning after December 31, 1983, may be
          deducted from federal taxable income in each of the next two years beginning
          after December 31, 1987, and one-half of the amount not allowed as an
          accelerated cost recovery system depreciation deduction for the taxable year
          beginning after December 31, 1984, may be deducted from federal taxable
          income in each of the next two taxable years beginning after December 31, 1989.
          All such adjustments must be made before computing income subject to
          apportionment.
     c. Provided, that the depreciation adjustments allowed in subdivision b shall be
          limited to those eligible assets acquired during taxable years beginning after
          December 31, 1982. Acquisitions made before taxable years beginning
          January 1, 1983, must be depreciated pursuant to the methods permissible under
          Internal Revenue Code provisions in effect prior to January 1, 1981.
     d. Except that for purposes of applying the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as
          amended, with respect to actual distributions made after December 31, 1984, by
          a domestic international sales corporation, or former domestic international sales
          corporation, which was a domestic international sales corporation on

                                       Page No. 1

             December 31, 1984, any accumulated domestic international sales corporation
             income of a domestic international sales corporation, or former domestic
             international sales corporation, which is derived before January 1, 1985, may not
             be treated as previously taxed income.
 6.   "Foreign" when applied to a corporation means created or organized outside of North
      Dakota.
 7.   "Mental disorder" means a substantial disorder of the person's emotional processes,
      thought, cognition, or memory. Mental disorder is distinguished from:
      a. Conditions which are primarily those of drug abuse, alcoholism, or intellectual
             disability, unless in addition to one or more of these conditions, the person has a
             mental disorder.
      b. The declining mental abilities that accompany impending death.
      c. Character and personality disorders characterized by lifelong and deeply
             ingrained antisocial behavior patterns, including sexual behaviors which are
             abnormal and prohibited by statute, unless the behavior results from a mental
             disorder.
 8.   "Passthrough entity" means a corporation that for the applicable tax year is treated as
      an S corporation under the Internal Revenue Code, a limited liability company that for
      the applicable tax year is not taxed as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, a
      general partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability
      limited partnership, trust, or a similar entity that passes its income, deductions, and
      credits through to its owners.
 9.   "Person" includes individuals, fiduciaries, partnerships, corporations, and limited
      liability companies, and other entities recognized by the laws of this state.
10.   "Qualified investment fund" means any regulated investment company as defined
      under the Internal Revenue Code, which for the calendar year in which the distribution
      is paid:
      a. Has investments in interest-bearing obligations issued by or on behalf of this
             state, any political subdivision of this state, or the United States government; and
      b. Has provided the tax commissioner with a detailed schedule of the assets
             contained in its investment portfolio and a schedule of the income attributable to
             each asset in its investment portfolio for the calendar year.
11.   "Resident" applies only to natural persons and includes, for the purpose of determining
      liability for the tax imposed by this chapter upon or with reference to the income of any
      income year, any person domiciled in the state of North Dakota and any other person
      who maintains a permanent place of abode within the state and spends in the
      aggregate more than seven months of the income year within the state. A full-time
      active duty member of the armed forces assigned to a military installation in this state,
      or the member's spouse, is not a "resident" of this state for purposes of this chapter
      simply by reason of having voted in an election in this state.
12.   "Tax commissioner" means the state tax commissioner.
13.   "Taxable income" in the case of individuals, estates, trusts, and corporations means
      the taxable income as computed for an individual, estate, trust, or corporation for
      federal income tax purposes under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1954,
      as amended, plus or minus the adjustments as may be provided by this chapter or
      other provisions of law. Except as otherwise expressly provided, "taxable income"
      does not include any amount computed for federal alternative minimum tax purposes.
14.   "Taxpayer" includes any individual, corporation, or fiduciary subject to a tax imposed
      by this chapter.
15.   Any term, as used in this code, as it pertains to the filing and reporting of income,
      deductions, or exemptions or the paying of North Dakota income tax, has the same
      meaning as when used in a comparable context in the laws of the United States
      relating to federal income taxes, unless a different meaning is clearly required or
      contemplated.




                                         Page No. 2

     57-38-01.1. Declaration of legislative intent.
     It is the intent of the legislative assembly to simplify the state income tax laws and to
demonstrate that federal legislation is not necessary to deal with certain interstate tax problems,
by adopting the federal definition of taxable income as the starting point for the computation of
state income tax by all taxpayers and providing the necessary adjustments thereto to
substantially preserve and maintain existing exemptions and deductions. It is the further intent
of the legislative assembly to eliminate double taxation of the earnings of small corporations by
recognizing a subchapter S election when made for federal income tax purposes.

    57-38-01.2. Adjustments to taxable income for individuals and fiduciaries.
    Repealed by S.L. 2009, ch. 545, § 32.

    57-38-01.3. Adjustments to taxable income for corporations.
    1. The taxable income of a corporation as computed pursuant to the provisions of the
         Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, must be:
         a. Reduced by any interest received from obligations of the United States that is
              included in taxable income or in the computation thereof on the federal return.
         b. Reduced by any other income included in the taxable income, or in the
              computation thereof, on the federal return which is exempt from taxation by this
              state because of the provisions of the Constitution of North Dakota or the
              Constitution of the United States.
         c. Increased by the amount of any income taxes, including income taxes of foreign
              countries, or franchise or privilege taxes measured by income, to the extent that
              such taxes were deducted to determine federal taxable income.
         d. Increased by the amount of any interest and dividends from foreign securities and
              from securities of state and their political subdivisions exempt from federal
              income tax, provided that interest upon obligations of the state of North Dakota or
              any of its political subdivisions may not be included.
         e. Reduced by the amount of net income not allocated and apportioned to this state
              under the provisions of chapter 57-38.1, but only to the extent that the amount of
              net income not allocated and apportioned to this state under the provisions of that
              chapter is not included in any adjustment made pursuant to the preceding
              subdivisions.
          f. Repealed by S.L. 2003, ch. 529, § 3.
         g. Increased by the amount of any special deductions and net operating loss
              deductions to the extent that these items were deducted in determining federal
              taxable income.
         h. Reduced by dividends paid, as defined in section 561 of the Internal Revenue
              Code of 1986, as amended, by a regulated investment company or a fund of a
              regulated investment company as defined in section 851(a) or 851(g) of the
              Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, except that the deduction for
              dividends paid is not allowed with respect to dividends attributable to any income
              that is not subject to taxation under this chapter when earned by the regulated
              investment company. Sections 852(b)(7) and 855 of the Internal Revenue Code
              of 1986, as amended, apply for computing the deduction for dividends paid. A
              regulated investment company is not allowed a deduction for dividends received
              as defined in sections 243 through 245 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
              amended.
          i. Except for a cooperative described in this subsection, increased by the amount of
              the deduction allowable under section 199 of the Internal Revenue Code
              [26 U.S.C. 199], but only to the extent of the deduction taken to determine federal
              taxable income. For a cooperative that has elected to pass the deduction through
              to its patrons under section 199(d)(3), of the Internal Revenue Code [26 U.S.C.
              199(d)(3)], the increase under this subsection does not include the amount
              passed through to its patrons.


                                            Page No. 3

j.   For taxable years 2005 and 2006, increased by the amount of extraterritorial
     income as defined in section 114 of the Internal Revenue Code [26 U.S.C. 114],
     that is excluded under sections 101(d), 101(e), and 101(f) of Pub. L. 108-357
     [118 Stat. 1418], but only to the extent the income was excluded in determining
     federal taxable income.
k.   Reduced, for an interest charge domestic international sales corporation without
     economic substance owned by individuals or passthrough entities, by the amount
     of actual or deemed distributions of the interest charge domestic international
     sales corporation to its owners. For purposes of this subsection, "without
     economic substance" means, in the case of an interest charge domestic
     international sales corporation subject to Internal Revenue Code section 992, that
     the interest charge domestic international sales corporation has elected to use
     intercompany pricing rules of Internal Revenue Code section 994, rather than the
     Internal Revenue Code section 482 method. For purposes of this subsection, a
     passthrough entity means an entity that for the applicable tax year is treated as
     an S corporation under this chapter or a cooperative, general partnership, limited
     partnership, limited liability partnership, trust, or limited liability company that for
     the applicable tax year is not taxed as a corporation under this chapter.
l.   Increased by the amount of the dividends paid deduction otherwise allowed under
     section 857 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if the real estate
     investment trust is a captive real estate investment trust.
     (1) For purposes of this subdivision:
           (a) "Captive real estate trust" means a real estate investment trust the
                 shares or beneficial interests of which are not regularly traded on an
                 established securities market, and more than fifty percent of the voting
                 power or value of the beneficial interests or shares of the real estate
                 investment trust are owned or controlled, directly, indirectly, or
                 constructively, by a single entity that is:
                 [1] Treated as an association taxable as a corporation under the
                      Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; and
                 [2] Not exempt from federal income taxation under section 501(a) of
                      the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
           (b) "Listed Australian property trust" means an Australian unit trust
                 registered as a managed investment scheme under the Australian
                 Corporations Act in which the principal class of units is listed on a
                 recognized stock exchange in Australia, and is regularly traded on an
                 established securities market, or an entity organized as a trust,
                 provided that a listed Australian property trust owns or controls,
                 directly or indirectly, seventy-five percent or more of the voting power
                 or value of the beneficial interests or shares of such trust.
           (c) "Qualified foreign entity" means a corporation, trust, association, or
                 partnership organized outside the laws of the United States, and
                 which satisfies all of the following criteria:
                 [1] At least seventy-five percent of the entity's total asset value at
                      the close of its taxable year is represented by real estate assets
                      as defined in section 856(c)(5)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code
                      of 1986, as amended, including shares or certificates of
                      beneficial interest in any real estate investment trust, cash and
                      cash equivalents, and United States government securities;
                 [2] The entity is not subject to tax on amounts distributed to its
                      beneficial owners or is exempt from entity level taxation;
                 [3] The entity distributes at least eighty-five percent of its taxable
                      income, as computed in the jurisdiction in which it is organized,
                      to the holders of its shares or certificates of beneficial interest on
                      an annual basis;


                                   Page No. 4

                      [4]    Not more than ten percent of the voting power or value in the
                             entity is held directly or indirectly or constructively by a single
                             entity or individual, or the shares or beneficial interests of such
                             entity are regularly traded on an established securities market;
                             and
                        [5] The entity is organized in a country that has a tax treaty with the
                             United States.
                (d) "Real estate investment trust" has the meaning ascribed in
                        section 856 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
          (2) For the purposes of applying subparagraph a of paragraph 1, the following
                entities are not considered an association taxable as a corporation:
                (a) A real estate investment trust other than a captive real estate
                        investment trust;
                (b) A qualified real estate investment trust subsidiary under subsection i of
                        section 856 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, other
                        than a qualified real estate investment trust subsidiary of a captive real
                        estate investment trust;
                (c) A listed Australian property trust; and
                (d) A qualified foreign entity.
          (3) A real estate investment trust that is intended to be regularly traded on an
                established securities market and that satisfies the requirements of
                sections 856(a)(5), 856(a)(6), and 856(h)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of
                1986, as amended, shall not be deemed a captive real estate investment
                trust within the meaning of this subdivision.
          (4) A real estate investment trust that does not become regularly traded on an
                established securities market within one year of the date on which it first
                became a real estate investment trust shall be deemed not to have been
                regularly traded on an established securities market, retroactive to the date
                it first became a real estate investment trust, and shall file an amended
                return reflecting the retroactive designation for any tax year or part-year
                occurring during its initial year of status as a real estate investment trust. For
                purposes of this subdivision, a real estate investment trust becomes a real
                estate investment trust on the first day that it has both met the requirements
                of section 856 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and has
                elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust under section 856(c)
                (1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
          (5) For purposes of this subdivision, the constructive ownership rules of
                section 318(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, as
                modified by section 856(d)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
                amended, apply in determining the ownership of stock, assets, or net profits
                of any person.
     Provided, however, that each adjustment in the above subdivisions authorized under
     law is allowed only to the extent that the adjustment is allocated and apportioned to
     North Dakota income.
2.   The tax commissioner is hereby authorized to prescribe rules and regulations to
     prevent requiring income that had been previously taxed under this chapter from being
     taxed again because of the provisions of this chapter and to prescribe rules and
     regulations to prevent any income from becoming exempt from taxation because of the
     provisions of this chapter if it would otherwise have been subject to taxation under the
     provisions of this chapter.
3.   The sum calculated pursuant to subsection 1 must be reduced by the amount of any
     net operating loss that is attributable to North Dakota sources, including a net
     operating loss calculated under chapter 57-35.3 for tax years beginning before
     January 1, 2013. If the net operating loss that is attributable to North Dakota sources
     exceeds the sum calculated pursuant to subsection 1, the excess may be carried
     forward for the same time period that an identical federal net operating loss may be

                                         Page No. 5

     carried forward. If a corporation uses an apportionment formula to determine the
     amount of income that is attributable to North Dakota, the corporation must use the
     same formula to determine the amount of net operating loss that is attributable to
     North Dakota. In addition, no deduction may be taken for a carryforward when
     determining the amount of net operating loss that is attributable to North Dakota
     sources.

57-38-01.4. Recognition of subchapter S election.
1. For the purposes of this chapter, any person as defined in section 57-38-01 and
     required to file a North Dakota income tax return who makes an election under
     subchapter S of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, for federal income
     tax purposes shall have such status recognized and such person's taxable income
     must be computed as provided in subchapter S of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954,
     as amended, with the adjustments allowed by this chapter or other provisions of law.
     Income of a subchapter S corporation subject to tax for federal income tax purposes is
     also subject to state income tax at the corporate income tax rates imposed by section
     57-38-30.
2. The distributed and undistributed taxable income of an electing small business
     corporation for federal and state income tax purposes derived from or connected with
     sources in this state does constitute income derived from sources within this state for a
     nonresident person who is a shareholder of such a corporation, and a net operating
     loss of such corporation derived from or connected with sources in this state does
     constitute a loss or deduction connected with sources in this state for such a
     nonresident individual.

57-38-01.5. Crop insurance proceeds - Option to postpone for income tax purposes.
Repealed by S.L. 1983, ch. 630, § 2.

57-38-01.6. Deduction for contributions to retirement plans.
Repealed by S.L. 1983, ch. 630, § 2.

57-38-01.7. Income tax credit for charitable contributions - Limitation.
1. At the election of the taxpayer, there must be allowed, subject to the applicable
     limitations provided in this subsection, as a nonrefundable credit against the income
     tax liability under section 57-38-30 or 57-38-30.3 for the taxable year, an amount equal
     to fifty percent of the aggregate amount of charitable contributions made by the
     taxpayer during the year to nonprofit private institutions of higher education located
     within the state or to the North Dakota independent college fund. The amount
     allowable as a credit under this subsection for any taxable year may not exceed fifty
     percent of the taxpayer's total income tax under this chapter for the year, or two
     thousand five hundred dollars, whichever is less.
2. At the election of the taxpayer, there must be allowed, subject to the applicable
     limitations provided in this subsection, as a nonrefundable credit against the income
     tax liability under section 57-38-30 or 57-38-30.3 for the taxable year, an amount equal
     to fifty percent of the aggregate amount of charitable contributions made by the
     taxpayer during the year directly to nonprofit private institutions of secondary
     education, located within the state. The amount allowable as a credit under this
     subsection for any taxable year may not exceed fifty percent of the taxpayer's total
     income tax under this chapter for the year, or two thousand five hundred dollars,
     whichever is less.
3. At the election of the taxpayer, there must be allowed, subject to the applicable
     limitations provided in this subsection, as a nonrefundable credit against the income
     tax liability under section 57-38-30 or 57-38-30.3 for the taxable year, an amount equal
     to fifty percent of the aggregate amount of charitable contributions made by the
     taxpayer during the year directly to nonprofit private institutions of primary education,


                                       Page No. 6

         located within the state. The amount allowable as a credit under this subsection for
         any taxable year may not exceed fifty percent of the taxpayer's total income tax under
         this chapter for the year, or two thousand five hundred dollars, whichever is less.
    4.   A passthrough entity entitled to a credit under this section must be considered to be
         the taxpayer for purposes of this section and the amount of the credit allowed must be
         determined at the passthrough entity level. The amount of the total credit determined
         at the entity level must be passed through to the partners, shareholders, or members
         in proportion to their respective interests in the passthrough entity.
    5.   For purposes of this section, the term "nonprofit private institution of higher education"
         means only a nonprofit private educational institution located in the state of North
         Dakota which normally maintains a regular faculty and curriculum, which normally has
         a regularly organized body of students in attendance at the place where its educational
         activities are carried on, and which regularly offers education at a level above the
         twelfth grade. The term "nonprofit private institution of secondary education" means
         only a nonprofit private educational institution located in North Dakota which normally
         maintains a regular faculty and curriculum approved by the state department of public
         instruction, which normally has a regularly organized body of students in attendance at
         the place where its educational activities are carried on, and which regularly offers
         education to students in the ninth through the twelfth grades. The term "nonprofit
         private institution of primary education" means only a nonprofit private educational
         institution located in North Dakota which normally maintains a regular faculty and
         curriculum approved by the state department of public instruction, which normally has
         a regularly organized body of students in attendance at the place where its educational
         activities are carried on, and which regularly offers education to students in
         kindergarten through eighth grade.
    6.   For purposes of this section, a taxpayer may elect to treat a contribution as made in
         the preceding taxable year if the contribution and election are made not later than the
         time prescribed in section 57-38-34 for filing the return for that taxable year, including
         extensions granted by the commissioner.

   57-38-01.8. Income tax credit for installation of geothermal, solar, wind, or biomass
energy devices.
    1. A taxpayer filing a North Dakota income tax return pursuant to the provisions of this
        chapter may claim a credit against the tax liability under section 57-38-30 for the cost
        of a geothermal, solar, or biomass energy device installed before January 1, 2015, in a
        building or on property owned or leased by the taxpayer in North Dakota. A wind
        energy device on which construction was commenced before January 1, 2015, and
        which is installed before January 1, 2017, is eligible for the credit provided in this
        section. The credit for a device installed before January 1, 2001, must be in an amount
        equal to five percent per year for three years, and for a device installed after
        December 31, 2000, must be in an amount equal to three percent per year for five
        years of the actual cost of acquisition and installation of the geothermal, solar, wind, or
        biomass energy device and must be subtracted from any income tax liability of the
        taxpayer as determined pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
    2. For the purposes of this section:
        a. "Biomass energy device" means a system using agricultural crops, wastes, or
              residues; wood or wood wastes or residues; animal wastes; landfill gas; or other
              biological sources to produce fuel or electricity.
        b. "Geothermal energy device" means a system or mechanism or series of
              mechanisms designed to provide heating or cooling or to produce electrical or
              mechanical power, or any combination of these, by a method which extracts or
              converts the energy naturally occurring beneath the earth's surface in rock
              structures, water, or steam.
        c. "Solar or wind energy device" means a system or mechanism or series of
              mechanisms designed to provide heating or cooling or to produce electrical or


                                            Page No. 7

               mechanical power, or any combination of these, or to store any of these, by a
               method which converts the natural energy of the sun or wind.
   3.   If a geothermal, solar, wind, or biomass energy device is a part of a system which uses
        other means of energy, only that portion of the total system directly attributable to the
        cost of the geothermal, solar, wind, or biomass energy device may be included in
        determining the amount of the credit. The costs of installation may not include costs of
        redesigning, remodeling, or otherwise altering the structure of a building in which a
        geothermal, solar, wind, or biomass energy device is installed.
   4.   A partnership, subchapter S corporation, limited partnership, limited liability company,
        or any other passthrough entity that installs a geothermal, solar, wind, or biomass
        energy device in a building or on property owned or leased by the passthrough entity
        must be considered to be the taxpayer for purposes of this section, and the amount of
        the credit allowed with respect to the entity's investments must be determined at the
        passthrough entity level. The amount of the total credit determined at the entity level
        must be passed through to the corporate partners, shareholders, or members in
        proportion to their respective interests in the passthrough entity.
   5.   If a taxpayer entitled to the credit provided by this section is a member of a group of
        corporations filing a North Dakota consolidated tax return using the combined
        reporting method, the credit may be claimed against the aggregate North Dakota tax
        liability of all of the corporations included in the North Dakota consolidated return.
   6.   a. The credit allowed under this section may not exceed the liability for tax under
               this chapter. If the amount of credit determined under this section exceeds the
               liability for tax under this chapter, the excess may be used as a credit carryover to
               each of the five succeeding taxable years.
        b. Any excess tax credits earned for wind energy devices installed after
               September 30, 2008, and before January 1, 2012, may be used as a credit
               carryover to each of the thirty succeeding taxable years.
        c. For any tax credits for geothermal, solar, or biomass energy devices installed
               after September 30, 2008, and wind energy devices installed after December 31,
               2011, the excess may be used as a credit carryover to each of the ten
               succeeding taxable years.
   7.   For geothermal, solar, wind, or biomass energy devices installed after December 31,
        2006, if ownership of a device is transferred at the time installation is complete and the
        device is fully operational, the purchaser of the device is eligible for the tax credit
        under this section. Subsequent purchasers of the device are not eligible for the tax
        credit.
   8.   An individual taxpayer filing a North Dakota return pursuant to the provisions of this
        chapter may claim a credit against the tax liability under section 57-38-30.3 for the cost
        of a geothermal energy device installed after December 31, 2008, and before
        January 1, 2015, in a building or on property owned or leased by the taxpayer in North
        Dakota. The credit must be in an amount equal to three percent per year for five years
        of the actual cost of acquisition and installation of the geothermal energy device.

   57-38-01.9. Deduction of contributions to individual retirement account.
   Repealed by S.L. 1983, ch. 630, § 2.

   57-38-01.10. Deferral of crop disaster payments and proceeds of livestock sold on
account of drought.
   Repealed by S.L. 1983, ch. 630, § 2.

   57-38-01.11. Reporting net operating loss.
   Repealed by S.L. 1983, ch. 630, § 2.

   57-38-01.12. Reporting of investment credit carryback for prior taxable years.
   Repealed by S.L. 1983, ch. 628, § 2.


                                           Page No. 8

    57-38-01.13. Taxation of the gain or loss resulting from the sale of a principal
residence.
    Any gain or loss resulting from the sale or exchange of a principal residence in this state by
a taxpayer who reinvests in another principal residence outside of this state must be treated in
the same way for state income tax purposes as it is treated for federal income tax purposes.

     57-38-01.14. No gain recognized on property subject to eminent domain sale or
transfer.
     If any private property, through the exercise of eminent domain, is involuntarily converted
into property of either like or unlike kind, no gain, either ordinary or capital, may be recognized
for corporate income tax purposes.

    57-38-01.15. Proration and itemization of deductions and exemptions.
    Repealed by S.L. 1989, ch. 710, § 4.

    57-38-01.16. Income tax credit for employment of individuals with developmental
disabilities or severe mental illness.
    1. A taxpayer filing an income tax return under this chapter may claim a credit against the
          tax liability imposed under section 57-38-30 or section 57-38-30.3 for a portion of the
          wages paid to an employee with a developmental disability or a severe mental illness.
    2. The credit allowed under this section equals twenty-five percent of up to six thousand
          dollars in wages paid annually by the taxpayer for each employee with a
          developmental disability or severe mental illness, if the department of health and
          human services' vocational rehabilitation division determines the individual has a most
          significant disability, is eligible for services, and requires customized employment or
          supported employment to obtain competitive integrated employment.
